what's dangerous is not when evil people
do evil things what's dangerous is when
good people stand by and do nothing
charming fellow by the name of
durianrider has made criminal
allegations against me their criminal in
more ways than one the message he has
posted to the Internet is pointedly
unclear it's intentionally vague and
never reveals what it is exactly that
I'm accused of but the one thing that is
clear is that he seems certain that I
should be apprehended and arrested that
I should be brought to the police here
in Thailand for whatever it is he's
vaguely insinuating that I have them my
email has been public on the Internet
long before I even had a youtube channel
if you simply go to google and type in
my name plus email you've got my email
address it's been public back when I was
publishing articles back when I was
writing a blog I've been a kind of
public intellectual for many years now
and I've been getting fan mail for many
years now back when I was a scholar of
tera vaada Buddhism back when I wrote
about politics of China Cambodia
Thailand Laos I've always gotten fan
mail partly because my name and my email
address on the internet for anyone to
get in touch with me and over the years
many interesting people have got in
touch with me and you know sometimes an
email leads to a Skype conversation
sometimes it leads to a face-to-face
interview I remember a journalist for a
very famous newspaper for Lamont Lomond
is one of the most famous used
newspapers in France and it's somewhere
on the list of the most famous
newspapers in the world I remember a
journalist from LeMond just by reading
the articles I had the internet got my
email got in touched me and interviewed
me in Cambodia when he flew to Cambodia
to to cover some of the news stories is
what it is
but the implicit absurdity here in these
allegations from Durham Ryder is that
he's stating that he needs to find out
where I am that he's asking his
followers to track me down to be
relatively nonviolent well a Google
search is about as nonviolent as he gets
during Ryder you can put on him to
Google and talk to me in five minutes
again by email by Skype or whatever you
know where I am you know how to talk to
me and you always have so the pretense
that this is anything other than a
threat of violence is paper-thin so I'm
gonna read this out and I mean the
nature of the allegations here is so
absurd that it's difficult to believe
anyone could take it seriously
especially in the context of durianrider
himself having made allegations of this
kind again and again to denounce various
people so you know he has a track record
of such allegations sometimes attached
to threats of violence sometimes not and
I'm in the small number of people have
been on the internet talking about the
implications of that because I've always
been saying look this is dangerous if
you think it's not dangerous if you
think this isn't something you have to
speak out on or you know prevent from
getting worse you know take a look at
the history of the Western world again
my own background is heavily involved
with political history etc I have a
different perspective on these things
than the average vegan you know vegans
have all kinds of backgrounds I've been
talking to vegans who are scientists and
I remember I've met some vegans who you
know didn't even complete their high
school education I've met vegans who are
high school dropouts
who got very humbled jobs in life and
I've met vegans who were farmers you
know who came up in the new vegans come
from all walks of life
not everyone has a diploma in political
science not everyone has the kind of
background I do and what I do on the
Internet is making the type of unique
contribution that I can offer I don't
sing I don't dance I think it's great
that other people sing and dance
and their contribution to the discourse
and veganism is through singing and
dancing that's fine that's helping I'm
gonna do but what I do basically is
talking about politics including the
politics of veganism the question of how
we get organized and make a difference
in the world
and I don't know at bottom it's it's
pretty sad that durianrider can't see
some good in that and given these
slogans that are kicked around about you
know save the planet save the world I
think it's worth asking yourself again
and again and again how different would
this whole situation be how different
would our behavior be his mine everyone
in the crowd jumping on this controversy
how differently would we be acting if
this were really about saving the world
mmm so I will read this out durianrider
says quote I can't confirm a hundred
percent yet if this is true but this POS
is allegedly in Chiangmai and asking
teenage girls for money and I assume
probably sex etc let's pause so is I
this has never returned to the message
the fantasy of his here I guess is that
is that teenage girls are paying me um
for my advice that they should stay in
school and get a straight job I love the
fact that he leads with that allegation
you know what I mean like let's start
with the strong suit he's been asking
teenage girls from money what now I mean
uh if some people watching this have
never seen my channel for some you've
already seen my videos there are videos
on this channel of me having
conversations with younger women there
was an excellent podcast it's it's both
a video and available as mp3 the
discussion I had with Zarya and Zuri has
their own YouTube channel I think she's
about 23 years old she's a much younger
woman there's nothing sexy about that
conversation we talk for over an hour
it's a very deep conversation about
vegan
but activism and about emotional aspects
of being vegan in the modern Western
world we talk about you know her
relationship with her own parents you
know how being vegan messed up their
family and then I talk about my
relationship with my parents and being
vegan and my family and you know
Zaria she has experience with the pig
save movement so she's done the type of
protest where they you know they
witnessed the pigs being slaughtered and
they at least hear it and so on standing
in front of the the the slaughterhouse
it's deep and it's meaningful and it's
real I I suggest all you guys see that
video it's it's a great example of how I
talk to younger women I have another
video here it's very long talking to an
18 year old who's in Canada I'm Canadian
and she's only 18 she became vegan
recently and she was wanting to talk to
me about how to get organized how to get
involved with vegan activism how to
organize some kind of meaningful you
know intervention in her community and
watch that video is nothing sexy about
it there's no chemistry on campus no
spark between us there's no flirtation
but there's a lot of real content I mean
those two videos alone in those two
videos there is more positive content
than most vegans have on their whole
Channel and more meaningful content I'm
not saying this to insult you guys but
you know some channels the whole thing
is taken up with just food recipes what
I ate today what am i fine I'm happy for
you guys everyone you know different
flavors everybody gets to do their own
thing on the internet and that's cool
but what I'm doing my thing and you guys
can take a look and decide for yourself
if you appreciate it because that's the
contribution I have to make
fundamentally is talking about politics
since I arrived here in Chiangmai the
only female I've talked to who's not a
teenager anymore is Lea and Lea has has
also been interviewed on this channel
you can watch the interview I did with
her it's here on YouTube mmm again
nothing sexy know flirtation no spark
there but I did meet in talk with Lea
and I've met and talked with other
vegans here who were eager to talk to me
mmm they knew I was here they were fans
of my channel and we had long
conversations about you guess that
vegan politics getting organized for
social change how do we actually make a
pause the difference the world in terms
of ecology veganism all the other things
gathered under this heading
you know vivisection animal cruelty
animal rights all these related topics
so I've been spending hours and hours
having productive conversations with
people who actually want to cooperate
with me to make the world a better place
how would durianrider be conducting
himself in this conversation if you were
actually trying to make the world a
better place
how we continue is she another Jack
Francis question mark I'm not sure yet
but after learning from last year we are
not going to be [ __ ] around this time
both guys are good talkers and highly
manipulative how would you know during
Ryder how could you know what could this
possibly be based on and I am I a good
talker I don't know I mean I would think
normally durianrider would be would be
you know slamming me because I have so
few followers you know maybe I'm not a
good talker
maybe if I were a good talker I'd have a
million fans on the Internet um in terms
of being highly manipulative I don't
know I mean give me one example of my
manipulating anybody into doing anything
and one of the things I'm infamous for
was that you know this other youtuber
vegan cheetah he thanks me because I
inspired him to go back to school to go
back to university some people call that
manipulation like I manipulated him into
wanting to have a straight job and going
back to university and and you know
advance his career okay well you know
what's what's the actual allegation here
what kind of manipulation am i engaging
in and it's interesting cuz I should my
channel I have a lot of reflections
about how awful university is but still
I get fan mail from all sorts of people
telling me that I inspired them to work
harder go back to school etc so this
also shows how easily people will take
inspiration in different directions and
man I got love for all you guys
I'm still not cynical about the vegan
move maybe I'll come back to that later
in this video I've been talking to a lot
of videos lately spurred me
talking to a lot of vegans lately who
have lost faith in veganism itself after
spending time here in Chiang Mai because
they meet other vegans and they think
this is hopeless they think this group
of people are never going to get
organized to make the world a better
place but I don't feel that way
I still got love for you guys I still
got optimism and you know I have other
experience other forms of political
organization I've seen other movements
come and go you know compared to the
Green Party compared to other movements
for ecology compared to other political
parties mainstream political parties
compared to my experience with Buddhism
with Tera Byte of Buddhism for so many
years vegans vegans in 2016 not that bad
I still I still got hope for the future
I still got love for you all right so he
says this shil has a YouTube channel and
provides a link thanks to the promotion
during writer I mean the only reason I'm
able to read this is that I have so many
fans who are inside to writers Facebook
group this is his special Facebook group
for people participating in the festival
but several different people in that
group wrote to me right away and between
them they've confirmed that this is
authentic and I'm presuming that this is
a fan taken out of fake but several
different people independently confirmed
that they got this straight from from
Duran right on his Facebook group it's
quite possible to be a fan of both me
and durianrider there people are fans on
my channel and you also like riding
bicycles and I say hey more power to you
thankfully but I'm sure I'm sure I'll
get some more followers thanks to this
endorsement from durianrider because you
can call me a shill but a lot of people
are gonna click on that link take a look
at the channel and think a you know
there's some real substance here uh he
claims to be a vegan yet most of his
videos are bashing other vegans again
anybody can take a look man look at the
list of videos I've got over 200 videos
do you want to say most of my videos are
about the politics and history of China
I have a couple I have a couple videos
on you know politics of Asia politics of
Cambodia I cover quite a variety of
topics but in terms of the number of
hours I have a lot of very positive
content about veganism community
organization
effective activism what is effective
activism I have and you know we talked
about bashing other vegans
I have several critiques of direct
action everywhere which are great I
still stand by those and curricula Wars
and they're not bashing they're asking
the questions if is this effective
activism you know like when direct
action everywhere walk into a restaurant
hold up a sign and scream at a bunch of
strangers you know what are the real
outcomes should we be endorsing this as
vegans or not thoughtful meaningful
videos and yeah there's criticism
involved this critique but you know
that's what I got to give people like I
say not if one has a diploma in
political science
not everyone has worked specifically on
the politics of Asia not everyone's
worked on the languages of Asia
how many guys how many white boys are
there who are vegans in Chiangmai who
speak Thai I'd love it if there were a
whole bunch you guys who speak Thai a
lot better than I do
I mean last night I met up with Jake
Eames and I I had for the price of a
durian forum I had a kind of funny
conversation with the durian vendor and
I was asking different questions and so
on um you know so Jake got to see me
speaking Thai and he got to see that
experience but I don't claim to be
fluent in the language and I mean I
speak I speak Thai with a heavy lotion
accent to say the least cuz I lived in
Laos or two and a half years um but you
know I've got a real meaningful
engagement to this region its language
its histories of politics I've got
something to offer and like I say I
don't sing or dance but I got something
positive to bring this community and I
done brung it all right so he continues
to say if you see him in town or know
what hotel or apartment number he is
staying in please tell me you can remain
a non of course so that sentence alone
is already a threat because he's saying
he is gonna show up at my door right
it's not just hotel it's apartment
number right so the insinuation is that
durianrider and his posse are gonna come
to my door and confront me in my bedroom
all right look
I'm not a tough guy but I'm tougher than
these guys okay naturally if five guys
jump me I'm not gonna win the fight if
it's five on one that's not what I'm
saying nobody's invincible
nobody's Superman nobody's trying to be
a hero dear but let me tell you I've
really suffered in my life I've really
had people to kill me sorry
slight slip-up there I've had people
threaten to kill me when it was a real
threat and when they were in a position
to kill me and I've defended myself in
life-and-death situations a couple times
not that much doesn't come up that much
when your life is devoted to you know
studying books and obscure languages in
history but doesn't come up that much
but it happens uh and look guys you know
you can beat me up but you can't take my
dignity if you beat me up you're still
wrong and I'm still right doesn't change
a goddamn thing and you guys get to wake
up and ask yourselves in the morning why
you beat up someone who was a sincere
vegan talking about activism how to work
make the world a better place on YouTube
instead of beating up the owner of
Monsanto or the owner of a
slaughterhouse or you know some local
beef farmer or something now I don't
endorse any of that I'm one of the only
guys who's come up with a 100% anti
violence message here on YouTube and I
have videos discussing that in contrast
to Gary Yourofsky and in contrast
anarchism where I say look I'm not an
anarchist and I don't agree through it I
really I'm a I believe in democracy and
I think we should democratic nonviolent
means but these guys if you want to use
violence you wanna use violence against
me you think I'm your enemy you think
I'm the guy you should cross the line
for really a sincere vegan talking about
organizing you can take my life but you
cannot take my dignity and of anybody
here I'm not afraid to go to jail I'm
not afraid to go to jail in Thailand and
for me to go to jail when I know I'm
innocent when I know I haven't commit
any crime
man it'd be like a vacation I would only
enjoy it and I'd come out of that jail
speaking three languages but yo
durianrider is trying to say he's not
trying to send me an email he's not
trying to talk to me on the phone or by
Skype no no no he's trying to find me he
wants to know my apartment number so he
can come to my door
all right homeboy all right oh we're all
terribly impressed durianrider he's a
big man
I hear he's about six foot one I'm about
six foot three there were a lot of
boxing rings you know here in Chiangmai
kickboxing but you know Western boxing
also if durianrider actually wanted to
have like a charity boxing match with me
you know with the gloves on you know a
controlled environment
he could have reserved a room we can
have a square dance there's a slang word
you don't hear from Australians we can
have a square dance no problem no
problem we're the same age and we're
about the same height I can you can look
me up during Ryder but that's not what
he wants he wants to motivate his goons
to supposedly find out my hotel room in
my apartment number all right so what
you think he's gonna show up in the
hallway and start you think so maybe
better come on you're a game he's
putting himself and his followers in a
position where there's no way for them
to win if you're gonna threaten me this
way for one thing you're wrong you're
morally wrong because you made the
threat now if you don't back up the
threat you're doubly wrong but if you do
back up the threat you're triple-e wrong
you're wrong no matter what you just
make yourself look worse and sound worse
it only gets worse from here for you
these are more broadly these are reasons
why political activists should not
involve in you should not get themselves
involved in threats of violence or
violence
like I say man go to City Hall learn how
democracy works learn how to make social
change in your society through
nonviolent methods get organized huh
don't send goons to somebody's hotel
room this is not the way to pursue
social change not even when vegans are
facing off with you know I don't know
slaughterhouse corporations or
vivisection labs but it's certainly not
the way vegans should be facing off with
other vegans all right and that's what
this is about
all right so during Ryder continues I
know some of the guys have spoken to me
about him and want to confront him but
until we can confirm anything let's keep
it relatively nonviolent if he has
broken any rules we will citizens arrest
him and hand him over to the top do you
think they have even one person who can
speak the Thai language well enough
citizen's arrest do you sorry what movie
were you watching in which citizen's
arrest exists in Thailand
is that how you think the law works here
is that is that what you think you think
you aren't committing a crime if you in
Thailand you assault me abduct me and
drag me to a police station and then you
try to explain in the Thai language why
you did that you've been watching maybe
some American movies in the 1950s or
something with this idea of citizen's
arrest even the United States the
reality of citizen's arrest is very very
narrowly defined to avoid vigilantism to
avoid violence but it's never stated
what what crime I'm guilty of it's
vaguely stated them I'm making money
from talking to teenage girls uh what's
the basis for the collection I don't
know what are they paying before I mean
it yeah what do I make designer shoes
what what's the claim but it's not even
stated there's anything criminal in that
it's just an allegation that I'm uh
that's that somehow I'm making money
into that all right mm-hmm
sounds good during Ryder
very convincing very convincing case you
set out here for your fans I'm sure
you'd be just as convincing in a Thai
court of law I'm sure you and me would
have a great night in a Thai prison
together you and me during Ryder if
we're if we're spending some time in the
same prison who do you think would do
put cheese you think you think you're a
tough guy there's more than one kind of
tough you know it's more than one kind
of tough
I know real sorrow I know real suffering
in my life you know when my life fell
apart in Cambodia what hurt me was that
I wouldn't be able to achieve the
humanitarian goals I was pursuing trying
to make a pause the difference in
Cambodia was that I wouldn't be able to
perceive the scholarly goals I was
pursuing in terms of the study of the
languages the literature history and
politics etc there were positive things
I wanted to do in the world that I knew
I now couldn't do you know um but what
did I do
I was tough I was tough but I wasn't
stupid I didn't freak out I didn't start
a fight I decided to move back to Canada
where I hadn't lived for so many years I
moved to Saskatchewan a part of Canada
I'd never lived him and I tried to start
a new career working on humanitarian
issues historical issues political
issues and language issues language
politics for First Nations people
indigenous people the native people
Canada that's tough that's toughness of
a very different kind from trying to
start a street fight or trying to go to
someone's hotel room and beat them up it
is you know and if you don't appreciate
it that's fine but that's what I've got
to give that's the perspective I bring
to this that's different from anyone
else on YouTube I don't know durianrider
why aren't you trying to help the
Aboriginal people of Australia why are
you trying to help the tribal indigenous
people here in northern Thailand I've
done a lot of research on those people I
have done some humanitarian work for
those people northern Thailand northern
Laos know a lot about it historically
and currently
you could help people during Ryder and
you choose not to you choose to do this
see me when you see me you know my email
so he says I know some of the guys have
spoken to him and want to confront him
but until we can confirm anything let's
keep it relatively non-violence if he
has broken any rules we will citizen's
arrest him and hold him and hand him
over to the Thai police if they don't do
anything then yes we can serve justice
to the amount we feel is fair ah ha more
than one threat of violence there
including the great use of the term
relatively nonviolent mmm we have a
large number to this this is the part
that really should be insulting to you
in my audience because you know I
mention the start of this video I do
talk to a lot of vegan women of all ages
18 to 58 or something and this is
actually insulting to you guys to the
women of all ages in this movement here
is what he says we have a large number
of very trusting young women in our
community
and we want to set a loud example that
predators would do better avoiding our
groups at all times if they want to pray
then we will prey on them harder and
faster that's what it says here we have
a large number of trusting young women
that's that's how we characterizes women
and the vegan movement I would never say
that I would never portray the women in
this movement as a bunch of dumb
mindless guileless victims I think the
one thing vegan women have in common is
exactly that they're alert they're
morally uncompromising they're prepared
to make tremendous sacrifice to do the
right thing because they know what's
right
most vegan women know what it's like to
stand up to their own father to stand up
to their own mother and say no what
you're doing is wrong
I think vegan women have it harder than
vegan men because the expectation is on
them to cook meals or to just be polite
or mousy or be silent you know when the
rest of the family is eating turkey to
not make a fuss to just eat what
everyone else is eating I think you know
in terms of the way women treat other
women I think they they have it harder
than we do men you know I mean it turns
out they get pushed around intimidating
I think vegan women have to be tough and
I think they are tough and I think we
have a lot of smart hard-nosed women in
this movement and I think they're gonna
save the world you tell me this there's
so much talk about save the planet so
much height what would any of us be
doing right now
in Chiang Mai Thailand if we were
sincerely motivated to save the planet